---
title: "DNA vaccination before conception protects Zika virus–exposed pregnant macaques against prolonged viremia and improves fetal outcomes"
collection: publications
venue: "Science Translational Medicine"
date: 2019-12-18
---
[Link](https://stm.sciencemag.org/content/11/523/eaay2736.short)

## Abstract
Zika virus (ZIKV) infection of pregnant women is associated with congenital Zika syndrome (CZS) and no vaccine is available, although several are being tested in clinical trials. We tested the efficacy of ZIKV DNA vaccine VRC5283 in
a rhesus macaque model of congenital ZIKV infection. Most animal vaccine experiments have a set pathogen exposure
several weeks or months after vaccination. In the real world, people encounter pathogens years or decades after
vaccination, or may be repeatedly exposed if the virus is endemic. To more accurately mimic how this vaccine
would be used, we immunized macaques before conception and then exposed them repeatedly to ZIKV during
early and mid-gestation. In comparison to unimmunized animals, vaccinated animals had a significant reduction
in peak magnitude and duration of maternal viremia, early fetal loss, fetal infection, and placental and fetal brain
pathology. Vaccine-induced neutralizing antibody titers on the day of first ZIKV exposure were negatively associated
with the magnitude of maternal viremia, and the absence of prolonged viremia was associated with better fetal
outcomes. These data support further clinical development of ZIKV vaccine strategies to protect against negative
fetal outcomes.

## Authors

Koen K. A. Van Rompay, Rebekah I. Keesler, Amir Ardeshir.., **Jackson Stuart**, Kaitlyn M. Morabito.., Lark L. Coffey, Theodore C. Pierson, and Barney S. Graham.
